---
layout: default
title: Adding lots of source files to a WiX installer script
tags: wix tool installer setup windows xml node nodejs
comments: true
---
# Adding lots of source files to a WiX installer script

Now that Visual Studio has dropped support for creating installers, I have taken to studying the [WiX Toolset](http://wixtoolset.org/) quite earnestly. Manually editing the WiX script is all right as long you have a handful of files. A particular installer I am working on has over nine hundred. I need to bundle the Node.js [executable](http://nodejs.org/dist/latest/node.exe) along with all the modules.

A quick look at the WiX documentation revealed the heat tool, that when executed thus produces a script file with elements that we can copy and paste into your wxs

```cmd
"c:\Program Files (x86)\WiX Toolset v3.6\bin\heat.exe" dir . -o out.wxs -cg MyComponentGroup -sfrag -gg -g1
```

The dir option followed by a `.` tells `heat` to gather the directory structure (source file) information from the current folder and its children. The `cg` option tells it to create a ComponentGroup with an id of `MyComponentGroup`. The `sfrag` option tells it to suppress wrapping individual directories and components in a Fragment element. The `gg` and `g1` options tell it to generate GUIDs for the components, but without the curly braces.

The `Component` elements can be copied from within the `TARGETDIR` `DirectoryRef` element in `out.wxs` to the target wxs. Similarly, the list of `ComponentRef` elements in the `MyComponentGroup` `ComponentGroup` can be copied into the `Feature` element of the target wxs.

## A Sample Wix Installer Script

The following installer script can serve as a starting point for your installer. It does several things

* Install files and folders to User's Local AppData folder
* Add shortcut to node.exe in the Start menu and on the Desktop
* Add a shortcut to uninstall the app in the Start menu
* Uninstall older version when upgrading
* Allow killing node.exe during uninstall if it is in execution
* Customizing the icons and bitmaps that appear in the installer UI

{% gist 87f2f3e7cefd126285ee205b50e6332a %}

Remember to replace `UpgradeCodeGuidHere` with a valid GUID. GUIDs can be generated by executing `guidgen.exe` from Visual Studio's Developer Command Prompt. Choose the registry format and remove the braces. There are also quite a few online GUID generators.

## Compiling and linking

To compile the above script using the WiX compiler, execute

```cmd
candle.exe demo.wxs -ext WixUtilExtension
```

To link the object file produced by the compiler and create an msi, execute

```cmd
light.exe -out demo.msi demo.wixobj -ext WixUIExtension -ext WixUtilExtension
```

You can put both steps in a batch file

```cmd
set WIX_BIN=c:\Program Files (x86)\WiX Toolset v3.6\bin\
echo Wix Toolset Bin Path: %WIX_BIN%
"%WIX_BIN%candle.exe" demo.wxs -ext WixUtilExtension
if exist demo.wixobj (
  "%WIX_BIN%light.exe" -out demo.msi demo.wixobj -ext WixUIExtension -ext WixUtilExtension
)
```
